# capstone_1

Capstone Project #1 Proposal - 
	As I looked through the free APIs available for the project, I was intrigued by the Food API (https://apilist.fun/api/food-api). Like many, I am a huge fan of food. Many people want to discover new recipes they can fall in love with. For some, they want recipes for their new diet; for others, they need to find recipes that don’t contain certain ingredients they or a loved one is allergic to; and, for some, they just want recipes that taste good! In this capstone project, all of these options will be possibilities. 
	My proposed website will be a Pinterest-style website, except it will be exclusively for food. Users will be able to create boards to post their recipes. These boards will be able to have a custom name chosen by the user. Of course, perhaps the most essential part of this website will be the search aspect. Also, in saying this, I will have to allow users to register to their own accounts in order to create these boards. This will require me to create that functionality. Users will be able to type in terms in a search bar and be presented with a list of possible recipes. One part of this API’s functionality is the fact that a user can place parameters to enhance their searches. For example, they can include potatoes in the search, and they can also exclude any recipes with eggs. They can also include intolerances, such as for people with gluten sensitivities. Included in the recipes is also caloric value, which can be taken into consideration for the user if they want to meet a certain calorie count for the day and need the recipe to be under a certain caloric value. 
	I would like to also incorporate my own database into this website. This will allow users to create and post their own new recipes for the website. These recipes would have to include a picture, caloric value, name, ingredients list, and instructions on how to make it. I think I could potentially run into numerous issues with this because there are functions in this API I have never encountered before. I don’t necessarily have to use all parts of the API, but there is a section of the API about autocomplete, which I have not used before but would potentially be more useful to the users of my site if I could figure out how to make it happen. I also wonder how difficult it will be to mix my own database into the site that is already using this Food API.
	I would like the user to be able to look at a list of random food recipes as a homepage. However, if they want to search for recipes or click on recipes, they must first log in or sign up. After they have done so, they will be allowed to create boards and search for recipes to place in their boards. As mentioned previously, they will also be allowed to search for recipes and refine their searches as they see fit. They will also be able to create recipes that I would like to just be incorporated within the APIs recipes as well (still wonder if I will be able to do that successfully). This project will include the uses of the following languages: Python and Flask, SQLAlchemy, WTForms, HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. 
